[MUSIC]
>> Stanford University.
>> About the full back
propagation algorithm.
And I promise you as the last bit of
super heavy math- After that you can have
a warm fuzzy feeling around most of the
state of the art deep learning techniques.
Both for natural language processing and
even a little bit for
computer vision a lot of other places.
So, I know this can be a lot if you're not
super familiar with multivariate calculus.
And so, I'll actually describe
backprop in four different ways today.
And hopefully bring most
of you into the backprop
the group of people who know
back propagation really well.
So 4 different descriptions of
essentially the same thing.
But hopefully, some will resonate
more with some folks than others.
And so to show you that afterwards
we can have a lot more fun.
Well, actually then the second sort of,
well, not quite half, but
maybe the last third,
talk about the projects and
encourage you to get
started on the project.
Give you some advice on what the projects
will likely entail if you choose to do
a project instead of the last problem set.
Maybe one small hint for problem set one.
Again, it's super important to understand
the math and dimensionality, and if you do
that on paper, and then you still have
some trouble in the implementation.
It can be very helpful to
essentially set break points and
then print out the shape of all the
various derivatives you may be computing,
and that can help you in your
debugging process a little bit.
All right, are there any questions around
organization, problem sets, one, no?
All right, my project,
my office hours going to be a half
hour after the class ends today.
So if you have project questions,
I'll be there after the class.
All right, let's go to explanation
number 1 for back propagation.
And again, just to motivate you of
why we want to go through this.
Why do I torture some of you
with all these derivatives?
It is really important to have an actual
understanding of the math behind
most of deep learning.
And in many cases, in the future, you will
kind of abstract the way backpropagation.
You'll just kind of assume it
works based on a framework,
software package that you might use.
But that sometimes leads you to not
understand why your model might not
be working, right?
In theory,
you say it's just abstracted away,
I don't have to worry about it anymore.
But really in practice, in the
optimization you might run into problems.
And if you don't understand
the actual back propagation,
you don't know why you
will have these problems.
And so in addition to that, we kinda wanna
prepare you to not just be a user of
deep learning, but
maybe even eventually do research.
In this field and maybe think of and
implement and be very,
very good at debugging
completely new kinds of models.
And you'll observe that depending on which
software package you'll use in the future,
not everything is de facto supported
in some of these frameworks.
So if you want to create a completely new
model that's sort of outside the convex
Known things, you will need to implement,
the forward and
the backward propagation for a new
sub-module that you might have invented.
So, you just have to trust me
a little bit in why it's useful.
Hopefully this helps.
So last time we ended with
this kind of neural network,
where we had a single hidden layer.
And we derive all the gradients for
all the different parameters of this
model, namely the word vectors here.
The W, the weight matrix for
our single hidden layer and
the U for the simple linear layer here.
And we defined this objective function and
we ended up writing,
for instance, one such derivative here
fully out where we have the indicator
function whether we're in this regime or
if it's zero.
And if it's above zero,
then this was the derivative.
In here, I just rewrote the same
derivative twice, essentially showing you
that instead of having to recompute,
this if you had basically
stored during forward propagation
the activations of this,
this is exactly the same thing,
so f(Wx + b) we defined
as our hidden activation, a, then you
could reuse those to compute derivatives.
Alright, now we're going to take it up
a notch and add an additional hidden
layer to that exact same model, and it's
the same kind of layer but in out that
we have 2, we have to be very careful here
about our superscript which will indicate.
The layers that we're in.
So it's the same kind
of window definition,
we'll go over corpus, we'll select
samples for our positive class and
everything that doesn't for instance have
an entity will be our negative class.
Everything else is the same, but
we're adding one hidden layer to this.
And so, let's go through the definition.
We'll define x here, our Windows and
our word vectors that we concatenated,
as our first activations,
our first hidden layer.
And now to compute to intermediate
representation for our second layer,
just a linear part of that,
we basically have here W1.
A superscript matrix times x plus b1.
And then to compute the activations A,
superscript two of that will apply
the element-wise nonlinearities,
such as the sigmoid function.
All right, and
then we'll define this here as z3,
same idea but this could potentially have
different dimensionalities, w1, w2 for
instance don't have to have
exactly the same dimensionality.
Do the same thing again,
element wise nonlinearity and
we have the same linear layer at the top.
All right, are there any questions
around the definition of this here?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> The question is do those two element
wise functions here have to be the same?
And the answer is they do not.
And if fact this is something
that you could cross-validate and
try as different
hyper-parameters of the model.
We so far have only introduced
to you the sigmoid.
So let's assume for now, it's the same.
But in a later lecture, I think next week,
we'll describe a lot of other
kinds of non-linearities.
Yeah.
How do you choose which
of these functions.
We'll go into all of that once
we know that we have which or
what the options are.
The best answer usually is,
you let your data speak for
yourself and you run experiments
with a lot of different options.
Once you do that, after a while you gain,
again, certain intuitions.
And you don't have to redo it every time.
Especially if you have ten layers, you
don't wanna go through the cross-product
of five different nonlinearities.
And then all the different variations.
Usually, you get diminishing returns for
some of those type of parameters.
>> Question.
>> Yeah?
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Sorry, I didn't hear you.
Right.
So the question
is,could we put the b into the w?
And if that's confusing,
you could essentially assume
that b is this biased term here.
Is another element of this W matrix,
if we add a single one to every
activation that we have here.
So, if a two frame,
since we just added one here, then we
could get rid of this bias term and
we'd have an additional Row or
column depending on what we have in W.
So yes, we could fold b into W
to simplify the notation, but
then as we're taking derivatives we want
to keep everything separate and clear.
And you'll usually back propagate
through these activations,
whereas you don't back
propagate through b.
So for this math,
it's better to keep them separate.
Yeah.
So U transpose is our last,
the question is what's U transposed?
And U transpose is our last layer,
if you will.
But there's no non-linearity with it,
and it's just a single vector.
And so because by default here in
the notation of the class we assume these
are column vectors.
We transpose it so
that we have a simple inner product.
So it's just another set of
parameters that will score
the final activations to be
high if they're a named entity,
if there's a named entity of
the center of this window.
And scored low if not.
That's correct.
It is just a score that
we're trying to maximize and
we compute that final score
with this inner product.
And so these activations
are now something that we
compute in this pretty complex
neural network function, yeah.
Here everything is a column vector,
that's correct.
All the x's are column vectors.
So the question is,
is there a particular reason of why we
chose a linear layer as the last layer?
And the answer here is to
simplify the math a little bit.
And because and to introduce to you
another kind of objective function,
not everything has to be normalized and
basically summed to 1 as probabilities.
If you just care about finding one
thing versus a lot of other things,
like I just want to find named entities
that are locations as center words.
And if it's high, then that's likely one.
And if it's low,
then it's likely not a center location.
Then that's all you need to do.
And in some sense, you could add here
a sigmoid after this, and then call it
a probability, and then use standard
cross entropy loss to, in your model.
There's no reason of why
you shouldn't do it.
That's something you have to do in the
problem sets, trying to combine, we derive
that, we help you derive the softmax and
cross entropy pair optimization.
And then we going through this and
hopefully you can combine the two and
you'll see how both work.
But it's essentially
a modeling decision and
it's not wrong to apply a sigmoid here.
And then call this a probability,
instead of a score.
All right, so now,
we have this two layer neural network, and
we essentially did most of the work
already to derive the final things here.
We already knew how to
derive our U gradients.
And what used to be just
W is not W superscript 2,
but just because we add the superscript
all the math is the same.
So here, same derivation that we did for
W, it's just now sitting
on a2 instead of on just a.
And so what we did here, basically,
follows directly to what we now have.
It's the same thing, but we now have
to be careful to add these superscripts
depending on where we
are in the neural network.
And we'll have the same definition
here when we multiply Ui and
f prime of zi superscript 3, we'll
just call that delta superscript 3 and
subscript i, for the ith element.
And this is going to give us the partial
derivative with respect to Wij,
the i jth element of the W matrix.
So this one we've already
derived in all its glory.
I'm just putting here again
with the right superscripts.
Now, the total function
that we have is this one.
And, again, we have here this same
derivative, I just copied it over.
And in matrix notation, we have to
find this as the outer product here.
That would give us the cross product,
all the pairs of i and
j to have the full
gradient of the W2 matrix.
So this one was exactly as before, except
that we now add the superscript a2 here.
Now, in terms of the notation,
we defined this delta i in
terms of all these elements.
And these are basically,
if you think about it, two vectors.
This Ui we could write as the full U.
All the elements of the u vector.
And f prime of zi we could
write as f prime of z3 where
we basically drop the index and assume
this is just one vector of a bunch of
element wise applications of this gradient
function of this derivative here.
So we'll introduce now this notation
which will come in very handy.
And we call the Hadamard product or
element-wise product.
Sometimes you'll see it as little circles.
Sometimes it's a circle with a cross or
with a dot inside.
Whenever you see these
in backprop derivatives,
it's usually means the same thing.
Which we just element-wise multiply all
the elements of the two vectors with one
another.
So this is how we'll define
from now on this delta,
the air signal that's
coming in at this layer.
So the last missing piece for
back propagation and
to understand it is essentially
the gradient with respect to W1,
the second layer now,
that we're moving through.
Any questions around the Hadamard product,
the outer product from the W?
Yeah?
It is no longer what?
Sorry it's.
Associated, so yes.
So the question is once you use the
Hadamard product, how is this related to
the matrix multiplication here or
the vector, outer product?
And so
you basically first have to compute this.
And then you have the full
delta definition.
And then you can multiply these and
outer product to get the gradient.
Yeah.
Sure, so the question is, could you
assume that these are diagonal matrices?
And yes, it's this kind of the same thing.
But in terms of the multiplication
you have to then make sure your
diagonal matrix is efficiently implemented
when it's multiplied with another vector.
And as you write this out,
if this is confusing,
write out what it means to
have a matrix times this.
And what if this is
just a diagonal matrix?
And what do you get versus just
multiplying each of these elements with
one another?
So just write out the definitions
of the matrix product and
then you'll observe that you
could think of it this way.
But then really this f prime here,
is just as a single vector
why apply the derivative
function to a bunch of zeros,
in this case, zero, two so.
All right, so the last missing piece,
W1, the gradient for it.
And so the main thing we have to figure
out now is what's the bottom layer's
error message delta 2 that's coming in?
And I'm not going to go
through all the indices again.
It would take a while and
it's kind of repetitive.
And it's very, very similar to what
we've done in the last lecture.
But essentially,
we had already arrived at this expression.
As the next lower update.
And in our previous model,
we would just arrive,
that would be the signal that
arrives at the word vectors.
So our final word vector
update was defined this way.
And what we now basically
have to do is once more,
just apply the chain rule because instead
of having coming up at the word vectors.
Instead, we're actually
coming up at another layer.
So basically, you can kind of call
it a local gradient also, but
it's when you multiply whatever error
signal comes from the top layer,
you multiply that with your local error
signal, in this case, f prime here.
Then together, you'll get the update for
either the weights that are at that layer,
or the intermediate term for
the gradient for lower layers.
So that's what we mean by our signal.
And it might help in the next definition,
it might give you a better explanation
of this in backprop number two.
All right, so almost there.
Basically, we apply the chain rule again.
And if the chain rule for such a complex
function is maybe less intuitive,
so one thing that helped
me many years ago,
is to essentially assume all of these
are scalars, just single variable.
And then derive all this,
assuming it just, U, W,
and x are all just single numbers.
And then derive it,
that will help you gain some intuition.
And then you'll observe in the end that
the final delta 2 is essentially similar
to what we had derived in a very detailed
way, which is W2 transposed times delta 3,
and then Hadamard product times f
prime of Z2 which is that layer here.
And this is basically it,
if you understand these two equations, and
you feel you can derive them now,
then you will know all the updates for
all standard multilayer neural networks.
You will, in the end,
always arrive at these two equations.
And that is, if you wanna
compute the error signal that's
coming into a new layer,
then you'll have some form of W,
of the high layer transposed times
the error signal that's coming in there.
Hadamard product with element y's
derivatives here of f in the f prime.
And in the final update for each W,
will always be this outer product
of delta error signal times
the activation at that layer.
And here, I include also our
standard regularization term.
And you can even describe the top and
bottom layers this way.
And then lead to word vectors and
the linear layer, but
they just have a very simple delta.
All right, now, for some of you, just like
all right, now I understand everything,
and it's great that I fully
understand back propagation.
But judging from Piazza and
just from previous years, it's also
quite a lot to wrap your head around.
And so I will go through three
additional explanations now,
of this exact same algorithm.
And there, we're going through much
simpler functions not full neural
networks, but
much simpler kinds of functions.
But maybe for some, it will help to wrap
their heads around sort of the general
idea of these error signals through
these simpler kinds of functions.
So instead of having a crazy neural
network with lots of matrices and
hidden layers.
We'll just kinda look at
a simple function like this, and
we'll arrive at a similar kind of idea.
Namely, recursively applying and
computing these error signals or
local gradients as we
move through a network.
Now, the networks in this idea seen
function as circuits are going to be much,
much simpler.
And these are examples from another
lecture on Git learning for
convolutional neural networks and
computer vision, and we're basically
copying here some of their slides.
And so let's take, for example, this very
simple function, f of three variables.
And this simple function
is just x plus y times z.
And let's assume we start with
some random initial values for
x, y, and z from which we start and
wanna compute derivatives.
Now, just as before with a complex neural
network, we can define intermediate
terms but now, the intermediate
terms are very, very simple.
So we'll just take q, for instance,
and we define q as x plus y,
this local computation.
And now,
we can look at the partial derivatives
here of q with respect to x and
with respect to y.
They're very simple,
it's just addition, right, just one.
And we can also define f now,
in terms of q times z,
where we use our intermediately
defined function here.
And here, we're kind of simplifying q, it
should be q is a function of x and y, but
we just drop that.
And we can also define our partials of f,
our overall function with respect to q.
Now, again, to connect that
to what we looked at before.
F could be our lost function, x, y, z
could be parameters of this and we wanna,
for instance, minimize our lost function.
So now, what we want is, we want the final
updates to update these variables.
So we'll start with at the very top.
Just a df by df which is just 1,
so it's not much there.
We usually start with that.
And now, we want to update and
learn how do we update our z vectors?
So we look at dfdz, and what is that?
Well, we wrote down here all our different
derivatives, so df by dz is just q.
And we define q as x + y, and x and
y is minus 2 and 5.
And so the gradient or
the partial derivative here is just 3.
All right, so far we're just very
simple q times derivative z, that's it.
All right, now,
we can move also through this circuit.
And are there questions around just
the description of this circuit,
of this function in terms of the circuit?
All right, so now, let's look at the dfdq
which is the element here of the circuit,
this node in the circuit
description of this function.
Now, the dfdq is again, quite simple
we already wrote it right here.
It's just z, and z is just minus 4.
But now, the chain rule,
we have to multiply and
this is essentially a delta
kind of error message.
We multiply what we have from
the higher node in the circuit, but
that's in this case, is just 1.
And so the overall is just z times 1,
and z is minus 4, z is minus 4.
And now,
we're going to move through this plus
node to compute the next
lower derivatives here.
And this is, we end up at the final
nodes here, the final leaf nodes if you
will of this tree structure,
and we wanna compute the dfdy.
Now dfdy,
We basically wanna use the chain rule,
and we're going to multiply what
we have in the previous one, dfdq,
which is the error signal coming from here
times dqdy, which is the local error,
the local gradient,
it's not really the full gradient right,
this is the local part
of the gradient dqdy.
So we multiply these two terms,
the dfdq we wrote down here,
that says z minus 4, times dqdy,
as you wrote down here.
It's just one, so
minus 4 times 1, we got minus 4.
And we can do the same thing for
x, again, apply the chain rule.
All right, so in general, in this way of
seeing all these functions as circuits,
we basically always have
some kind of input so
each node in the circuit and
we compute some kind of output.
And what's important is we can
compute our local gradients here
directly during the forward propagation.
We don't need to know this
local part of the gradient.
We don't need to know what's up before.
But in general, we will run this forward.
We'll around some of these values.
And then in back propagation,
we get the gradient signals from any
element upstream from each of
these nodes in the circuits.
And essentially then,
use the chain rule and
multiply all of these
to compute the updates.
All right, any questions around
the definition of the circuits for
simple functions?
It's very hard to take this
kind of abstraction, and
then get all the way to this full update.
Therefore, a full near
layer neural network, but
it's very good to gain intuition of
what's really going on, on a high level.
>> All right, so now,
let's go through a little more complex
example of what this looks like.
And I think of at the end of that you
kind of gain some good intuition of how
we basically do forward propagation, and
recursively call these kinds of
circuits to compute the full update.
So here,
we have a little bit more of a complex
function namely actually our sigmoid
function that we had before.
Usually when we have our sigmoid function,
this was one activation
of one hidden layer.
In most cases, x was our input and
w were the weights.
So we defined this already, and now,
let's assume we just want to compute
the partial derivatives with respect
to all the elements, w and x.
And let's assume x and w are just,
x is two-dimensional, and
w is three-dimensional.
And we have here the bias term
as just an extra element of w.
So now, if you take this whole function,
we're gonna now compute or
define this as a circuit.
That one description that's the most
detailed description of this function
as a circuit would look like this,
where you basically recursively
divide this function into all
the separate actions that you might take.
And you can compute gradients and
the local gradients at each
note in this kind of circuit.
So the last operation to compute
the final output f here of this function,
is 1 over whatever is in here.
And so that's our last element of
the circuit, and from the bottom it
starts with multiplying these two numbers,
multiplying these two numbers,
and then adding to their summation
this w2 install, all right?
Are there any questions around
the description of the circuit?
All right, so now, let's assume we
start with these simple numbers here,
so w2, w0 starts at 2, x0 starts at minus
1, minus 3, minus 2, and minus 3 here.
So we just move forward through
the circuit to compute our forward
propagation, right?
So this is a relatively simple
concatenation of functions.
And now, we wanna compute all our partial
derivatives with respect to all
these different elements here.
So we'll now go backwards and recursively
backwards through this circuit, and
apply the chain rule every time.
So let's start the final value to the
forward propagation numbers here in green,
at the top the final
value of this is 0.73.
And again, the first delta derivative of
just the function with itself, is just 1.
And now, we hit this node in a circuit,
and we want to now compute
the derivative of this function,
and the function's 1 over x.
And so the derivative is
just minus 1 over x squared.
x is 1.73, and so we basically compute
minus 1 divided by 1.37,
sorry, 1.37 squared.
And then we multiply using a chain rule,
the gradient signal here from
the top that goes into this node.
So now, you multiple these two,
and you get the number minus 0.53.
Now, we're moved to the next node,
so this node here,
we just sum up a constant
with the value x,
and so the derivative of that is just 1.
So we multiply, use the chain rule,
multiply these two elements,
the error signal or
gradient signal from the top as it moves
through this element of the circuit,
which is just minus 0.3 times 1 so
we get again minus 0.53, sorry.
Now, we move through the exponent.
It's a little more interesting.
So here, derivative of e to
the x is just e to the x.
And we have the incoming value
which is minus 1, so that's our x.
So we have e to the minus
1 times minus 0.53,
the gradient signal from
the higher node in this circuit.
And we basically continue like this for
a while, and
compute the same for plus,
similar to this plus and so on.
And that the end, we arrive right here.
And our error signal is 0.2, and
we have this multiplication here.
And we know in multiplication, the partial
of w0 times x0 partial with
respect to x0 is just w0.
And so we multiply 0.2 times the value
here which is 2 and we get 0.4.
And now, we have an update for
this parameter after we've moved
recursively through the circuit
all the way to where it was used.
And this is essentially the same thing
that we've done for the very complex
neural network, but sort of one step
at a time for a very simple function.
Any questions around this
sort of circuit description
of the same back propagation at year.
Namely reusing the derivatives,
multiplying local error signals
with the global error signals from
higher Layers, where here, the layer
definition's a bit stretched, it's very,
very simple kinds of operations.
Yeah?
That's right, so here,
each time the sort of gradient,
the local gradient times the global or
above higher layer gradient signal.
When you multiply them,
you get an actual gradient.
So they're not really gradients, right,
they're sort of intermediate
values of a gradient.
Yep.
So the question is we're
using this kind of circuit
interpretation to compute derivatives and
that's correct.
If you were to just do
standard math on this equation
you would end up with something
that looks exactly like this.
And you would also have
similar kinds of numbers.
But we're making it a little
more complicated, in some ways,
to compute the derivatives here,
of each of the elements of this function.
We're kind of push the chain rule to its
maximum by defining every single
operation as a separate function.
And then computing gradients at
every single separate function.
And when you do that, even for this kind
of simple function, you usually wouldn't
write out this complex thing and take
a derivative with respect to this node,
which is just plus,
cuz we all know how to do that.
And usually we just move
through this very quickly but
the circuit definitions can help you
understand the idea that at each node what
you end up getting is the local gradient
times the gradient signal from the top.
So in the end you get the exact same
updates as if you had just taken
the derivatives using
the chain rule like this.
And in fact, the definition of the circuit
can be arbitrary too and sometimes
it's a lot more work to write out all the
different sub components of a function.
So for instance,
we know if we just described
sigma of x as our sigmoid function, we
could kind of combine all these different
elements of the circuit as
just one node in the circuit.
And we know, with this one little
trick here, the derivative
of sigma x with respect to x can actually
be described in terms of sigma x.
So we don't need to do any extra
computation like we did internally here,
take another exponent and so on.
We actually can just know, well if that
was our value here of sigma x then
the derivative that will come out here
is just 1- sigma x times sigma x.
And so we could, in theory, also define
our circuit differently, and in fact
the circuits we eventually define are this
whole thing is one neural network layer.
And internally we know exactly the kinds
of messages that pass through such
a layer, or the error signals, or
again, elements of the final gradients.
Yeah?
That's a good question, sorry, yes.
So the question is, we're talking
about back propagation here, and
what is forward propagation?
Yeah, forward propagation just means
computing the value of your overall
function.
The relationship between the two is
forward propagation is what you compute,
what you do at test time, to compute
the final output of your function.
So, you want the probability for
this node to be a location, or for this
word to be a location, you'd do forward
propagation to compute that probability.
And the you do backward propagation to
compute the gradients if you wanna train
and update your model if you have
a training data set and so on.
That's right, the red numbers here at
the bottom are all the partial derivatives
with respect to each of these parameters.
And here all the intermediate values
that we use as that gradient flows
through the circuit to the parameters that
we might wanna update, great question.
All right, so
essentially we recursively applied the
chain rule as we moved through this graph.
And we end up with a similar
kind of intuition,
as we did with the same,
with just using math and
multivariate calculus, to arrive at these
final gradients, to update our parameters.
All right,
any questions around the circuit?
Interpretation of back propagation, yeah.
So here w2 is our bias term,
it doesn't depend on the values of x,
we just add it, and
w2 down here in the circuit.
So that is the last element we add
after adding these two multiplications.
All right, so,
now if that was too simple and
you wanna get a little
bit high level again,
you can essentially think of these
circuits also as flow graphs.
And circuit is the terminology that
Andrej Karpathy used in 231 and
Yoshua Bengio, for instance,
another very famous researcher in
deep learning uses the terminology
of flow graphs, but, again,
we have the very similar kind of idea.
You start with some input x,
you do forward propagation to
compute some kind of value.
You go through some intermediate variables
y, and then, in back propagation,
you compute your gradients going backwards
in the reverse order to what you've
done during forward propagation.
And so this is if you just have one
intermediate value now if x, and
this is something else important to
know it for the circuits it's the same,
if x modifies two paths in
your flow graph you end up,
based on the multiple variable Chain Rule.
You have to sum up the local air signals
for both from both of the paths.
And in general,
again you move backwards through them.
So usually as long as you have some
kind of directed basically graph or
tree structure,
you can always compute these flows and
these elements of your gradient.
And in general, if x goes through multiple
different elements in your flow graph,
you just sum up all the partials this way.
And so this is another interpretation much
more high level without defining exactly
what kinds of computation
you have here at each node.
But in general you can define
these kind of flow graphs and
each node is some kind
of computational result.
And each arc here is some kind
of dependency, so you need,
in order to compute this, you needed this.
And you can define more complex
things where you have so
called short circuit connections, we'll
define those much later in the class, but
in general,
you move forward through your node.
So this is a more realistic example
where we may have some input x,
we have some probability, or
sorry some class y for our train data set.
And in forward propagation,
we'll move these through a sigmoid neural
network layer here such
as h is just sigma of Vx.
We dropped here The bias term.
And so, you can also describe your
v as part of this flow graph.
You move through a next layer, and
then you may have a softmax layer here,
similar to the one that you
derived in problem set one.
And then you have your
negative log likelihood, and
you compute that final cost function for
this pair xy, for this training element.
And then back propagation again,
you move backwards through the flow graph.
And you update your parameters as
you move through the flow graph.
Now, before I go through the last and
final explanation, the good news is you
won't actually have to do that for
very complex neural networks.
It would be close to impossible for
the kinds of large complex neural
networks to do this by hand.
Many years ago, when I had started my PhD,
there weren't any software packages
with automatic differentiation.
So you did have to do that.
And it slowed us down a little bit.
But, nowadays,
you can essentially automatically
infer your back propagation updates
based on the forward propagation.
It's a completely deterministic process,
and
so can use symbolic expressions for
your forward prop.
And then have algorithms automatically
determine your gradient, right?
The gradients always exist for
these kinds of functions.
And so that will allow us
to much faster prototyping.
And you'll get introduced
next week to a tensor flow,
which is one such package that essentially
takes all these headaches away from you.
But with this knowledge,
you'll actually know what's going on
under the hood of these packages.
All right, any question around the flow
graph interpretation of back propagation?
Yes?
It's actually in closed form.
Yeah, it's not numerically solved.
So sorry, the question was, the automatic
differentiation, is it numeric or
symbolic?
It's usually symbolic.
All right, now, for the last and
final explanation of the same idea.
But combining the idea of the flow graph
with the math that you've seen before,
and hopefully that will help.
So, let's bring back this complex
two layer neural network.
Now, how can we describe this
at a much simplified kind of
flow graph or circuit where we can combine
in a lot of different elements instead of
writing every multiplication, summation,
exponent, negation, and so and out?
This is the kind of flow
graph that kind of yeah,
kind of combines these two worlds.
So we assumed here we had our delta
error signal coming from
the simple score that we have.
And let's say that our final, we want all
the updates, essentially, to W(2) and
W(1).
Now W(2), as we move through this
linear score, the delta doesn't change.
And so the update that we get for W(2)
here is just this outer product again.
And that's kind of, as we move through
this very high level flow graph,
we basically now update W(2) once we get
the error message from the layer above.
Now, as we move through W(2),
this kind of circuit will essentially
just multiply the affine,
like as we move through this simple affine
transformation this matrix vector product,
we're just required to transpose
the forward propagation matrix.
And we arrived why this is before,
but this is kind of the interpretation
of this flow graph in terms of a complex
and large realistic neural network.
And so notice also that
the dimensions here line up perfectly.
So the output here, we multiply this delta
that has the dimensionality of the output.
With the transpose, we get exactly
the dimensionality of the input of this W.
So it's quite intuitive, right?
You have the linear transformation,
affine transformation through this W
as you move backwards to this W,
you just multiply it with its transpose.
And now, we are hitting this
element wise nonlinearity.
And so as we update the next delta,
we essentially have also
an element wise derivative
here of each of the elements
of this activation.
So as we're moving our error vector,
error signal, or
global parts of the gradient through
these point-wise nonlinearities, we need
to apply point-wise multiplications with
the local gradients of the non-linearity.
And now we have this delta
that's arrived at W(1).
And so W1 we can now compute
the final gradient with respect to
W(1) as just the delta again times
the activation of the previous layer,
which is a(1) and
we have this outer product.
So this is combining the different
interpretations that we've learned.
We arrived through this through
just multivariate calculus.
And now this is the flow graph or
circuit interpretation of what's going on.
Yes?
>> If I mean point-wise non linearity,
I mean coordinate wise, yes,
they are the same.
So, whenever we write f(z) here, and
z was a vector of z1, z2, for instance,
then we meant f(z1) and f(z2).
And the same is true if
we write it like this.
And look at the partial derivatives.
Yeah?
>> I know.
>> That's just, from matrix [INAUDIBLE].
It is, yes, so the question is the delta
here the same as in the definition of
the two layer neural network?
And it is, yeah.
So this delta here is this and
you notice here that it's the same
thing that we wrote before.
We have W(2) transpose times delta(3).
And then you have the Hadamard product
with the element-wise derivatives here.
All right, congratulations!
You've done it.
So
now, understand the inner workings of
most deep learning models out there.
And this was literally
the hardest part of the class.
I think it's gonna go all uphill
from here for many of you.
And everything from now on is really
just more matrix multiplications and
this kind of back propagation.
It's really 90% of the state of
the art models out there right now and
top new papers that
are coming out this year.
You now can have a warm, fuzzy feeling,
as you look through the forward
propagation definitions.
All right, with that, let's have a little
intermission and look at a paper.
Take it away.
>> Hi everyone.
So yeah, so let's take a break from neural
networks, and let's talk about this
paper which came out from Facebook ARV
search just this past summer.
So text classification is
a really important topic in NLP.
Given a piece of text, we may wanna say,
is this a positive sentiment or
does it have negative sentiment?
Is this spam or ham, or
did JK Rowling actually write this?
And so
this one's particular from a website and
it's basing [COUGH] an example
of sentiment analysis.
And so if you recall from your
problem set in problem four.
An easy way to featurize a sentence
is to just average out all the word
vectors in a sentence.
And that's basically what
the model from this paper does.
And so they use really low
dimensional word vectors.
Take the average of them, kind of you
know you lose the ordering of it and
then you get this low dimensional text
vector which represents the sentence.
In order to kind of get some of
the ordering back, they also use n-grams.
And so now that we have the text vector
that's kind of like in the hidden layer.
We then feed it through a linear
classifier which uses softmax compute
the probability over all
the predictive classes.
The hidden representation is also
shared by all the classifiers for
all the different categories.
Which helps the classifier use information
about words learned from one category for
another category.
And so
will look a little bit more familiar
to you now that you guys have gone
through all the costs and whatnot.
So we minimize the negative flaws
likelihood over all the classes, and
the model's trying to using
stochastic gradient descent and
a linear decaying learning rate.
Another thing that makes it really fast
is the use of the hierarchical softmax.
And so by using this, the classes
are organized in like this tree kind of
fashion instead of just like in a list.
And so this also helps with the timing, so
we go from linear time
to logarithmic time.
Because also the costs are organized
in terms of how frequent they are.
So in case, we have maybe like a lot
of class, but less of one class.
This helps kind of balance that out so
NLP is really hot right now.
So in here the depth is much smaller,
so we can access that cost a lot faster.
But maybe for some less popular topics,
I just made some up here,
that's not actually my opinion.
But they have a much deeper depth
because they are much more infrequent.
And so especially in this day and age when
we're really crazy about neural networks,
the question is like how well
does this stack up against them?
Because it uses a linear classifier, it
doesn't really have all those layers for
neural network.
And as it turns out,
this actually performs really well.
It's not only really fast, but it performs
just as well if not sometimes better than
neural networks which is pretty crazy.
And so just a quick summary.
FastText, which is what they call their
model is often on par with deep learning
classifiers.
It takes seconds to train,
instead of days,
thanks to their use of low dimensional
word vectors in the hierarchical softmax.
And another side bit, is that it can also
learn vector representations of words in
different languages,
with performs even better than word2vec.
Thank you.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> All right, and you know what's awesome?
Like this kind of equation you could
totally derive all the gradients now too.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Just another day in the office.
All right, so class project.
This is for many, the most lasting and
fun part of the class.
But some people also don't
have a research agenda or
some kind of interesting data set,
so you don't have to do the project.
If you do a project,
we want you to have a mandatory mentor.
The mentors that are pre-approved are all
the PhD students, and Chris and me.
So we wanna really give
you good advice and
we want you to meet your
mentors frequently.
So think I'll have 25, Chris has 25, and
then I guess each of the PhD TAs
also has at most 25 groups.
It's a very large class.
But yeah, so
basically your class projects,
if you do decide to do it,
is 30% of your final grade.
And sometimes real paper
submissions come out from these.
It's really exciting, you get to travel.
You get probably paid,
depending on who you're working with.
If you're a grad student and
you write a paper,
to go to some fun places in the world.
And something that's really helpful for
people's careers.
Sometimes these papers,
people get contacted from various
companies once we put these papers up.
If you do a really good job,
it can have really lasting impact
on the kinda work that you do.
So on the choice of doing assignment four,
the final project.
We don't wanna force you
to do the final project,
cuz some people just wanna learn
the concepts and then move on with life.
And it can be a little painful to
try to come up with something.
So there is a final project, and
we will ask you to sort of define
your project with your mentor.
And then we might encourage you or
discourage you from moving
forward with that project.
Some projects might be too large in
scope or too small in scope, and so on.
And so do check with the TAs of whether
the project is the right thing for you.
If you do a project, and if you decide
to do it you really have to start early.
Ideally you will start meeting me today,
or
latest like next week or
two weeks and or the other TAs.
We write out a lot of the sort of
organizational things on the website.
So let's look at the website really quick.
It's now linked from our main page.
So you can get a couple of different
ideas from these top conferences.
So one project idea and
we'll go into that a little bit later,
is to take one of these newest
papers from the various groups or
various conferences and
just try to replicate the results.
You will notice that despite having in
theory, everything written in the paper,
if it's a nontrivial model
there's a lot of subtle detail.
And it's hard to squeeze all of
those details in eight pages.
So usually the maximum page them in so
replicating sometimes,
this paper is sufficient enough for
most papers in most projects.
So here, here's some very concrete
papers that you can look at and
to get adheres from others.
And what's kind of interesting and
new these days, this is by no means and
exclusive list,
there a lot more other interesting papers.
So again here there sort of pre
proofed mentors for projects.
You'll have to contact
us through office hours.
And if you do a project
in your project proposal,
you have to write out who the mentor is.
A lot of other mentors, we'll
actually list probably next week now.
A list of potential projects that
are coming from people who spend all their
time thinking about deep learning and NLP.
So if you don't have an idea, but you
really do wanna do some interesting novel
research project,
we'll post that link internally.
So that not the whole world sees it,
but only the students in this class.
Cuz sometimes, the PhD students
have some interesting novel idea.
They don't want it to get scooped and
have some other researchers do that idea,
but they do wanna collaborate
with students and youths.
So we'll keep those
ideas under wraps here.
So yeah, this is your project proposal.
You have to define all these things, and
we'll go through that now in
some of the details here.
And then you have a final submission,
you have to write a report.
And then we'll also have
a poster presentation,
where all the projects
are basically being described.
You'll have to print a little poster,
and we'll walk around.
It's usually quite fun.
Maybe we'll even come up with a prize for
best poster, and best paper, and so on.
All right, so
these are the organizational, Tips.
Posters and projects by the way
I have maximum of three people.
If you have some insanely,
well thought out plan,
we may make an exception and go to four.
But the standard default is three.
So the exception kind of has to be
mailed to the TAs or Aston Piazza.
Any questions around the organizational
aspects of the project?
Groups.
You can do groups of one, two, or three.
So it doesn't have to be three.
The bigger your group,
the more we expect from the project.
And you have to also write out exactly
what each person in the project has done.
You can actually use any kind of open
source library and code that you want.
It's just a realistic research project.
But if you just take Kaldi,
which is a speech recognition system, and
you say I did speech recognition.
And then really all you did
was download the package and
run it, then that's not very impressive.
So the more you use,
the more you also have to be careful and
say exactly what parts
you actually implemented.
And in the code,
you also have to submit your code, so
that we understand what you've done and
the results are real.
So this year we do want
some language in there.
Some natural human language.
Last year I was a little more open.
It could be the language of music and
so on now.
But this year it's [INAUDIBLE].
So we've got to have some
natural language in there, yeah.
But other than that,
that can be done quite easily so
we'll go through the types of
projects you might want to do.
And if you have a more theoretically
inclined project where you
really are just faking out some clever
way of doing a sarcastic ready to sent or
using different kinds of
optimization functions.
An optimizers that we'll talk
about leading the class to
then as long as you at least
applied it in one experiment
to a natural language processing data set
that would still be a pretty cool project.
So you can also apply
it to genomics data and
to text data if you wanna have
a little bit of that flavor.
But there is gonna be at least one
experiment where you apply it to a text
data set.
All right, so now let's walk through the
different kinds of projects that you might
wanna consider, and what might be entailed
in such project to give you an idea.
Unless there are any other questions
around the organization of the projects,
deadlines and so on.
So, let's start with
the kind of simplest and
all the other ones are sort of bonuses
on top of that simple kind of project.
And this is actually, I think generally,
good advice, not just for a class project,
but in general, how to apply a deep
learning algorithm to any kind of problem,
whether in academia or
in industry, or elsewhere.
So, let's assume you want to
apply an existing neural
network to an existing task.
So in our case, for instance,
let's take summarization.
So you want to be able to
take a long document and
summarize into a short paragraph.
Let's say that was your goal.
Now step one, after you define your task,
is you have to define your dataset.
And that is actually, sadly,
in many cases in both industry and
in academia,
an incredibly time intensive problem.
And so, the simplest solution
to that is you just search for
an existing academic dataset.
There's some people who've
worked in summarization before.
The nice thing is if you use
an existing data set, for instance,
from the Document Understanding
Conference, DUC here, then other people
have already applied some algorithms
to it, you'll have some base lines,
you know what kind of metric or evaluation
is reasonable versus close to random.
And so on,
cuz sometimes that's not always obvious.
We don't always us just accuracy for
instance.
So in that case, using an existing
academic data set gets rid
of a lot of complexity.
However, it is really fun if you actually
come up with your own kind of dataset too.
So maybe you're really excited about food,
and you want to prowl Yelp, or
use a Yelp dataset for restaurant review,
or something like that.
So, however,
when you do decide to do that,
you definitely have to check in with your
mentor, or with Chris and me, and others.
Because I sadly have seen several projects
in the last couple of years where
people have this amazing idea.
I'm excited, they're excited.
And then they spent 80% of the time
on their project on a web crawler
getting not blocked from IP addresses,
writing multiple IP addresses,
having multiple machines, and crawling.
And so on, then they realize,
all right, it's super noisy.
Sometimes it's just the document
they were hoping to get and
crawl, it's just a 404 page.
And now they've filtered that.
And then they realize HTML,
and they filter that.
And before you know it,
it's like, they have like three more days
left to do any deep learning for NLP.
And so, it has happened before so
don't fall into that trap.
If you do decide to do that, check with us
and try to, before the milestone deadline.
For sure have the data set ready so
you can actually do deep learning for NLP,
cuz sadly we just can't give you a good
grade for a deep learning for NLP class if
you spend 95% of your time writing a web
crawler and explaining your data set.
So in this case, for instance, you might
say all right, I want to use Wikipedia.
Wikipedia slightly easier to crawl.
You can actually download sort of
already pre-crawled versions of it.
Maybe you want to say my intro paragraph
is the summary of the whole
rest of the article.
Not completely crazy to
make that assumption, but
really you can be creative in this part.
You can try to connect it to your
own research or your own job if your
a [INAUDIBLE] student, or
just any kind of interest that you have.
Song lyrics come up from time
to time it's really fun NLP
combine with language of music
with natural language and so on.
So you can be creative here, and
we kind of value a little bit of
the creativity this is like a task of
data set we had never seen before and
you actually gain some interesting
Linguistic insights or something.
That is the cool part of the project,
right.
Any questions around defining a data set?
All right, so
then you wanna define your metric.
This is also super important.
For instance, you have maybe
have crawled your dataset and
let's say you did something simpler like
restaurant star rating classification.
This is a review and I want to
classify if this a four star review or
a one star review or a two or three.
And now you may have a class
distribution where this is one star,
this is two stars, three and four,
and now the majority are three.
Maybe that you troll kind of funny and
so really most of the reviews
are three star reviews.
So this is just like number
of reviews per star category.
And maybe 90% of the things you
called are in the third class.
And then you write your report, you're
super excited, it was a new data set,
you did well, you crawled it quickly.
And then all you give us
is an accuracy metric, so
accuracy is total correct
divided by total.
And now, let's say your accuracy is 90%.
It's 90% accurate, 90% of the cases
gives you the ride star rating.
Sadly, it just always gives three.
It never gives any other result.
You're essentially overfit
to your dataset and
your evaluation metric
was completely bogus.
It's hard to know whether they basically
could have implemented a one line
algorithm that's just as accurate as yours
which is just, no matter what the input,
return three.
So hard to give a good grade on that and
it's a very tricky trap to fall into.
I see it all the time in industry and
for young researchers and so on.
So in this case, you should've used,
does anybody know what kind
of metric you should've used?
F1, that's right.
So, and we'll go through some of
these as we go through the class but
it's very important to
define your metric well.
Now, for something as tricky as
summarization, this isn't where you're
really just like, this is the class,
this is the final answer.
You have to actually either extract or
generate a longer sequence.
And there are a lot of different
kinds of metrics you can use.
BLEU's n-gram overlap or Rouge share
which is a Recall-Oriented Understudy for
Gisting Evaluation which essentially
is just a metric to weigh differently
how many n-grams are correctly overlapping
between a human generated summary.
For instance,
your Wikipedia paragraph number one, and
whatever output your algorithm gives.
So, Rouge is the official metric for
summarization in different sub-communities
and NOP have their own metrics and
it's important that you know
what you're optimizing.
So, the machine translation, for
instance, you might use BLEU scores,
BLEU scores are essentially also
a type of n-gram overlap metric.
If you have a skewed data set,
you wanna use F1.
And in some cases,
you can just use accuracy.
And this is generally useful
even if you're in industry and
later in life, you always wanna
know what metric you're optimizing.
It's hard to do well if you don't know
the metric that you're optimizing for,
both in life and deep learning projects.
All right so,
let's say you defined your metric now,
you need to split your dataset.
And it's also very important step and
it's also something that you can
easily make sort of honest mistakes.
Again, in advantage of taking pre-existing
academic dataset is that in many cases,
it's already pre-split but not always.
And you don't wanna look at your
final test split until around
1 week before the deadline.
So, let's say you have downloaded
a lot of different articles and
now you basically have 100% of
some articles you wanna summarize.
And normal split would be take 80% for
training,
you take 10% for your validation and
your development.
So, oftentimes this is called
the validation split, or
the development split, or
dev split, or various other terms.
And 10% for your final test split.
And so, the final one, you ideally get a
sense of how your algorithm would work in
real life, on data you've never
seen before, you didn't try to chew
on your model like, how many layers should
I use, how wide should each layer be?
You'll try a lot of these things,
we'll describe these in the future.
But it's very important to correctly split
and why do I make such a fuss about that?
Well, there too, you might make mistakes.
So let's say,
you have unused text and let's say,
you crawled it in such a way there's a lot
of mistakes that you can make if you try
to predict the soft market for instance,
don't do that, it doesn't work.
But in many cases, you might say,
or there some temporal sequence.
And now, you basically have all your
dataset and the perfect thing to do
is actually do it like this, you take 80%
of let's say, month January to May or
something and then,
your final test split is from November.
That way you know there's no overlap.
But maybe you made a mistake and
you said well, I crawled it this way, but
now I'm just randomly sample.
So, as sample an article from here,
and one from here, and one from here.
And then the random sample goes
to the 80% of my training data.
And now, the test data and the development
data might actually have some overlap.
Cuz if you're depending on how you
chose your dataset maybe the another
article which just like a slight addition,
like some update to an emerging story.
And now the summary is
almost exact same but
the input document just
changed a tiny bit.
And you have one article in your training
set and another one in your test set.
But the test set article is really only
one extra paragraph on an emerging story
and the rest is exactly the same.
So now you have an overlap of your
training and your testing data.
And so in general,
if this is your training data and
this should be your test data.
It should be not overlapping at all.
And whenever you do really well, you run
your first experiment and you get 90 F1.
And things look just too good to be
true sadly in many cases they are and
you made some mistake where maybe your
test set had some overlap for instance,
with your training data.
It's very important to be a little
paranoid about that when your first couple
of experiments turn out just
to be too good to be true.
That can mean either your training,
your task is too simple,
or you made a mistake in splitting and
defining your dataset.
All right, any questions around defining
a metric or your dataset, yeah?
So, if we split it temporally, wouldn't
we learn a different distribution?
That is correct,
we would learn a different distribution,
these are non-stationary.
And that is kinda true for a lot of texts,
but if you, ideally, when you built
a deep learning system for an LP you
want it to built it so that it's robust.
It's robust to sum such changes over time.
And you wanna make sure that when
you run it in a real world setting,
on something you've never seen before,
you've shipped your software,
it's doing something, it will still work.
And this was the most realistic way
to capture how well it
would work in real life.
Would it be appropriate to run both
experiments as in both where you subsample
randomly, and
then you subsample temporally for your?
You could do that, and the intuitive
thing that is likely going to happen
is if you sample randomly from all
over the place, then you will probably
do better than if you have this
sort of more strict kind of split.
But running an additional experiment will
rarely ever get you points subtracted.
You can always run more experiments,
and we're trying really
hard to help you get computing
infrastructure and Cloud compute.
So you don't feel restricted with
the number of experiments you run.
All right, now, number 5,
establish a baseline.
So, you basically wanna implement
the simplest model first.
This could just be a very simple logistic
regression on unigrams or bigrams.
Then, compute your metrics on your train
data and your development data, so
you understand whether you're
overfitting or underfitting.
If, for instance, you're training Metric.
Let's say your loss is very,
very low on training.
You do very well on training, but
you don't do very well on testing,
then you're in an over fitting regime.
If you do very well on training and well
on testing, you're done, you're happy.
But if your training loss can't be lower,
so you're not even doing well on your
training, that often means your
model is not powerful enough.
So it's very important to compute
both the metrics on your training and
your development split.
And then, and this is something
we value a lot in this class too.
And it's something very important for
you in both research and
industries like you wanna analyze your
errors carefully for that baseline.
And if the metrics are amazing and
there are no errors, you're done,.
Probably a problem was too easy and
you may wanna restart unless it's really
a valuable problem for the world.
And then maybe you can just really
describe it carefully and you're done too.
All right, now, any questions
around establishing your baseline?
It is very important to not just go in and
add lots of bells and
whistles that you'll learn about in
the next couple of weeks in this class and
create this monster of a model.
You want to start with something simple,
sanity check, make sure you didn't
make mistakes in splitting your data.
You have the right kind of metric.
And in many cases, it's a good indicator
for how successful your final project
is if you can get this baseline
In the first half of the quarter.
Cuz that means you figured out a lot
of these potential issues here.
And you kind of have your right data set.
You know what the metric is, you know what
you're optimizing, and everything is good.
So try to get to this point
as quickly as possible.
Cuz that is also not as interesting, and
you can't really use that much
knowledge from the class.
Now then it gets more interesting.
And now you can implement some
existing neural network model that
we taught you in class.
For instance, this Window-based model if
your task is named entity recognition.
You can compute your metric
again on your train AND dev set.
Hopefully you'll see some interesting
patterns such as usually train
neural nets is quite easy in a sense
that we lower the loss very well.
And then we might not generalize
as well in the development set.
And then you'll play around
with regularization techniques.
And don't worry if some of the stuff
I'm saying now is kind of confusing.
If you want to do this,
we'll walk you through that as we're
mentoring you through the project.
And that's why each project has to
have an assigned mentor that we trust.
All right, then you analyze your
output and your errors again.
Very important, be close to your data.
You can't give too many
examples usually ever.
And this is kind of the minimum bar for
this class.
So if you've done this well and
there's an interesting dataset, then
your project is kind of in a safe haven.
Now again it's very important
to be close to your data.
Once you have a metric and
everything looks good,
we still want you to visualize the kind
of data, even if it's a known data set.
We wanted you to visualize it,
collect summary statistics.
It's always good to know the distribution
if you have different kinds of classes.
You want to, again very important, look
at the errors that your model is making.
Cuz that can also give you
intuitions of what kinds of
patterns can your deep learning
algorithm not capture.
Maybe you need to add
a memory component or
maybe you need to have longer temporal
kind of dependencies and so on.
Those things you can only figure out
if you're close to your data and
you look at the errors that your
baseline models are making.
And then we want you to analyze
also different hyperparameters.
A lot of these models
have lots of choices.
Did we add the sigmoid to that score or
not?
Is the second layer 100 dimensional or
200 dimensional?
Should we use 50 dimensional word vectors
or 1,000 dimensional word vectors?
There are a lot of choices that you make.
And it's really good in your first
couple projects to try more and
gain that intuition yourself.
And sometimes, if you're running
out of time, and only so much, so
many experiments you can run, we can help
you, and use our intuition to guide you,.
But it's best if you do
that a little bit yourself.
And once you've done all of that, now you
can try different model variants, and
you'll soon see a lot of
these kinds of options.
We'll talk through all
of them in the class.
So now another
kind of class project is you actually
wanna implement a new fancy model.
Those are the kinds of things that
will put you into potentially writing
an academic paper, peer review,
and at a conference, and so on.
The tricky bit of that is you kinda have
to do all the other steps that I just
described first.
And then, on top of that,
you know the errors that you're making.
And now you can gain some intuition of
why the existing models are flawed.
And you come up with your own new model.
If you do that, you really wanna be in
close contact with your mentor and some
researchers, unless you're a researcher
yourself, and you earned your PhD.
But even then,
you should chat with us from the class.
You want to basically try to set up
an infrastructure such that
you can iterate quickly.
You're like, maybe I should add this new
layer type to this part of my model.
You want to be able to quickly iterate and
see if that helps or not.
So it's important and
actually require a fair amount of software
engineering skills to set up efficient
experimental frameworks that
allow you to collect results.
And again you want to start with
simple models and then go to more and
more complex ones.
So for instance, in summarization you
might start with something super simple
like just average all your
word vectors in the paragraph.
And then do a greedy search of
generating one word at a time.
Or even greedily searching for
just snippets from the existing
article in Wikipedia and
you're just copying certain snippets over.
And then stretch goal is something more
advanced would be lets you actually
generate that whole summary.
And so here are a couple of project ideas.
But, again, we'll post the whole
list of them with potential mentors
from the NOP group and the vision group
and various other groups inside Stanford.
Sentiment is also a fun data set.
You can look at this URL here for
one of the preexisting data sets
that a lot of people have worked on.
All right, so
next week we'll look at some fun and
fundamental linguistic tasks
like syntactic parsing.
And then you'll learn TensorFlow and
have some great tools under your belt.
Thank you.